---
share: true
---
It all started when I wanted to use Obsidian for the elegant looks, functionality, compatibility and privacy. The ability to store all the notes as Markdown files is great as I can always write a note file anywhere on any computer and just put it in vault later. I wanted all that, but with sharing to others.
### My Note-taking app history
Few years ago I wanted an app that could be easily accessed on Android, Linux and Windows. I had Google Keep for most of the notes i wanted, but I wanted something more, something more pretty, something that I could have an app on a computer. The Google Keep is ok for some quick notes but the UI always put me off and there is no real organisation. So I started my search for perfect note-taking app. I tried Evernote but didn't stick, the same with Simplenote and Joplin. Then I found Notion, the first time I saw some beautiful dashboards on Youtube I was hooked. I watched multiple videos, explored the vast collection of templates and started to create my dashboard on top of one. I tried to make it perfect, but it wasn't, so I didn't use it much, so I tried again, and again and again. The customisation and the search for perfect note taking system in notion has took me too much time. I think it's too much of a distraction for me, there are so many options with so many things that I hoped I could do a note system that I will want to use, but I gave up. On the system, not Notion, I gave up on the customisation and tried to do just basic notes, with the thought that maybe after I have many of them then an idea how to organise them will come by itself, but it didn't and I have multiple issues with Notion.
It's a great app, I know a few people that use it and love it, but it's not for me. First I don't like pages in pages, I prefer directories and notes as files, next the struggle with the kanban board looks where i cannot hide the "hidden groups" or the blocks which i don't like, and lastly - when I had this Android phone, the Notion app is very slow, I saw multiple articles and comparisons that the app on Android devices is very slow. The issue is I get distracted sometimes and if I have to wait 5 seconds to load the app to write down something fast, it can just make me forget the note I wanted to make, this didn't happen that often but still it's frustrating to not be able to open notes in a blink. There were also some smaller other issues but overall I wanted to find something app that was fitting me better. 
I found Obsidian, on a PC it was - great, minimal, easy to use, very fast, directories, markdown. There was just one issue, the synchronisation. I know there is the official Sync and it is not very expensive, but then I was just a broke high-schooler with no money to spare on a note-taking app.
I tried the Google Drive sync but it wasn't so great, I had syncing issues multiple times and it was enough for me to drop it and come back to Notion for the time, but i wasn't taking too much notes in this time because of the many Notion videos and articles how good it can be and how great dashboards can be made, and it was overwhelming so I just didn't write anything.
### The simple note-taking is better than none in a pretty app

Then I got an iPhone and got access to Apple Notes. I love it, it's simple, I cannot customise it so I don't waste time on it and it is also very fast. It doesn't have any bells and whistles but maybe that's I stick with it and I was using it now for more than a year. I am mostly utilising PARA method by Tiago Forte and it works great and I take notes almost everyday, lately more often on paper as I started to get even more easily distracted on the phone, but this isn't the main topic.
The biggest issue with Apple Notes is compatibility. I mostly have Apple devices but if I want to share any of my notes, the other person also needs to have Apple device or an account and view it on the web. So for shared notes I still had Notion, not very elegant solution and still the person needs to have the Notion account.

### The find
Again I started to research what apps are better, I tried obsidian again because I read I can just sync with iCloud, and it's great no issues whatsoever, but then I found out there is no share capability to other users as in apple notes, yes I can create a team but then I have to pay for my Sync and the other person has to pay too. Not optimal. Then I found publish, the pricing I think is inadequate, 8$ for just publishing a note to a website is a bit much in my opinion. But I noticed one weird phrase on the website I didn't hear or read anywhere before, "Digital Gardening", I started digging more and I found out that people are creating their website and "dump" their notes in there as in the Obsidian Publish. When I found it I knew it was it. There is even a community plugin with guide how to setup Github repository and Vercel to publish your notes in the same way as the official feature does it. Here it is https://dg-docs.ole.dev.

I don't want to use Vercel or setup the website on my server, so when I found the way to use Github Pages with Jekyll to host my notes, I got excited. 
I found many "Digital Gardeners" which are using Jekyll like that with many simple and good looking themes. I went with the most minimal one as I don't wanna be tempted by the customisation right now. 

### My reason to start Digital Garden
I knew that I wanted it the website to be a Digital Garden as well as my personal website with my info and portfolio where I can show off my CV, my projects and everything else. This setup allows me to do this any way I want.

### How to do it yourself
The setup in short is very straightforward, choose a Jekyll template and clone it or take the base one, setup with bundler and push to repo and then you can start pushing notes. It didn't take long, but it's also not 5 minutes. 
